
                           Brian T. Rice - Résumé


Contact Information:

Brian T. Rice

      3848 NE 87th St.
      Seattle
      WA
      98115-3733
    


      Phone: 206.697.5489

      Email: BrianTRice@gmail.com

      URL: http://briantrice.com/

    

  

Professional Objective:

    
        I want to participate in new and innovative projects in software
    product or web services design and development, whether in a startup
    company or spin-off environment.
    
      

  

Employment History:

    
        Owner
    LOGOS Research and Development (Seattle, WA)
    May 2002-Present
    
    
    	Design, development, and testing of "Clean Slate" Smalltalk: a new
    programming language and software architecture intended to integrate
    and improve many disparate technologies into one coherent whole.
    This will constitute a new kind of software platform which should
    eventually be commercially viable.
    
          
    
    
    
        Lead Software Developer
    Activated Content, Inc. (Seattle, WA)
    March 2006-August 2006
    
    
    	Embedded systems software development for weather and environmental
    autonomous sensing stations. Maintained, documented, and upgraded
    legacy code, extensions, configuration management, and product
    testing.
    
          
    
    
        Firmware Developer, as Independent Contractor
    Coastal Environmental Systems (Seattle, WA)
    June 2005-October 2005
    
    
    	Embedded systems software development for weather and environmental
    autonomous sensing stations. This involved maintenance,
    documentation, upgrade of legacy code and extensions, configuration
    management, debugging, functional testing, and reliability testing
    of the product.
    
    
    	Prepared high-level documentation on the overall parameters and
    design of the product, and developed a set of recommendations for
    developing the product forward.
    
          
    
    
        Data Warehousing Systems Engineer
    Microsoft, Inc., MSN iDSS division (via Volt Information Services) (Redmond, WA)
    February 2004-February 2005
    
    
    	Developed and operated infrastructure software for performing
    data-warehousing processing and validation. Deployed, troubleshot,
    and operated data-warehouse pipeline software. Worked with SQL
    Server/OLAP solutions and web site management. Handled the
    cataloging and replacement of legacy infrastructure software,
    managed within SourceSafe version control. Administered SQL Server
    installations and developed a large management database application
    for auditing and automation purposes. Worked with multiple MSN
    organizations in negociating interaction protocols and software
    deployment issues. Developed clustering and optimized pipeline
    configurations for robustness and performance.
    
          
    Projects:
    * MSN adCenter
    
    
    
        Software Design and Research Consultant
    Ibis Information Securities (Seattle, WA)
    December 2002-June 2003
    
    
    	Consulted in the development of innovative wireless technologies and
    the software required to manage them. Also consulted in the field of
    online data-mining in the systems security field. I designed and
    developed an innovative product using dynamic language technologies.
    
          
    
    
        Lead Developer
    ForeHorseNet, Inc. (Seattle, WA)
    February 2001-December 2003
    
    
    	Worked with the company founders to develop a coherent technical
    strategy for the product (online payment system), by evaluating
    customer requirements, marketing issues, and suitable technologies
    and budgeting requirements.
    
          
    
    
        Nuclear Reactor Technician, Workflow Applications Programmer
    U.S. Navy (USS Carl Vinson Bremerton, WA)
    March 1996-March 2002
    
    
    	Electrical and electronics troubleshooting and repair, supervision
    and training, database applications programmer and administrator for
    the coordination of hundreds of work activities and information
    management. Managed a working group for equipment maintenance for
    over 2 years. Managed a system for equipment Quality Assurance,
    vibration monitoring, and software management for 2 years.
    
    
    	Designed, developed, and deployed a database client-server
    application for coordinating and scheduling activities and their
    dependencies for the nuclear and engineering sections of the ship as
    well as its associated shipyard activity. Outlined software
    requirements, met with several entities, collected feedback from
    pre- and post-deployment usage, and studied existing systems in
    effect. The system operated daily with several hundred users, with
    layers of authorization and up to a dozen concurrent users in normal
    operation, along with an extensive reporting facility and mechanisms
    in place for assuring data accuracy and transaction logging.
    
          
    Projects:
    * Iraq "No-Fly Zone" Enforcement
    * Initial Response in Afghanistan to 9/11
    
    
    
        Engineering Mathematics Lab Administrator
    Texas A&M University Mathematics Department (College Station, TX)
    October 1995-March 1996
    
    Ran a computing lab for the use of symbolic algebra systems for engineering students of all levels of study. Provided technical support and assistance in making the most out of this software, as well as tutoring in engineering/simulation problem-solving and brainstorming.
    
    
        Independent Tutor in Mathematics and the Sciences
     (Various)
    1992-1997
    
    Provided tutoring services to fellow students at a competitive rate. Fostered consistent success through highly-approachable explanations of deep technical and conceptual foundations of the field. Marketed entirely through word-of-mouth recommendations.
    
    
        Engineering CAD Draftsman (intern)
    O'Brien Manufacturing (Houston, TX)
    1994-1995
    
    Rendered an existing library of technical drawings of their product (high-survivability power plant controls/instrumentation enclosures) and set up environments for 3-D layout of customer equipment in existing and potential products.
      

  

Education:

    AS-equivalent coursework in Computer Science and Mathematics, March
    1996. Completed two years of honors course work in engineering and
    mathematics, along with much independent study in computer science
    and mathematics, logic and philosophy.
    Texas A&M University
    
    High School Diploma with Honors, May 1995
    Humble High School, TX
    
      Overall GPA: 4.7 out of 5.0
    
    
          I am primarily self-educated over the years, accumulating quite a
    library and using it regularly. I also correspond regularly with
    post-doctorate researchers on relevant topics.
    
        

  

Security Clearances:

    * Classified, US Navy / US Department of Energy, 1996. FBI
      background checks.
    

  

Systems Software Development:

    Programming Language Design (10 years), Domain-Specific Language
    Design and Implementation (expert), Compiler Implementation
    (intermediate), Virtual Machine Implementation (4 years), Managed
    Run-time Implementation (4 years), Formal Methods to Analyze and
    Simulate Concurrent and Distributed Software Designs (intermediate).
  

  

  

Databases:

    Schema Design and Implementation (expert), Schema Analysis and
    Optimization (intermediate), Query and Stored-Procedure Design and
    Optimization (expert), Security/Vulnerability Analysis
    (intermediate), OLAP Cube Management (1 year), MySQL (2 years),
    PostGreSQL (3 years), Microsoft SQL Server (3 years).
  

  

Web Development:

    PHP Programming (intermediate), Semantic HTML/CSS/Javascript
    presentation/layout/behavior (expert), AJAX-style Web-development (1
    year).
  

  

Source Control:

    Subversion, CVS (expert), DARCS (expert), SourceSafe, SourceDepot,
    Perforce.
  

  

Professional Memberships:

    Member
    Smalltalk Industry Council
    2002-
    

    Member
    Association of Lisp Users
    2002-
    

    Lead Researcher, Designer, and Coordinator
    The TUNES.org project
    October 1999-
    
    Helped re-design the site and its documentation to reflect a broader range of technical research and to separate political from technical goals.

  

References:

    Available upon request.
    

  

Copyright © 2006 by Brian Rice. All rights reserved. This document
may not be copied or distributed without permission.


