

                           Brian T. Rice - Résumé


Contact Information:

Brian T. Rice

      6512 C 34th Ave. NE
      Seattle WA 98115
    


      Phone: 206.697.5489

      Email: BrianTRice@gmail.com

      URL: http://briantrice.com

    

  

Professional Objective:

    
        As a software developer/analyst and programming language expert, I
    am looking for a position where I can participate in new and
    innovative projects in software product or web application design
    and development, whether in a startup company or spin-off
    environment.
    
    
        Having actively pursued experience in a wide variety of programming
    languages, and developed my own for further investigation, I am
    unusually capable at identifying powerful abstractions, without
    being tied to a particular toolset.
    
        
      

  

Employment History:

    
    
        iPhone Software Developer
    Various, on contract (Seattle, WA)
    September 2008-Present
    
    
    	Worked with Proximi.com (MagicPad and two unreleased iPhone
    geo-apps) and other iPhone vendors on client-server applications.
    Responsibilities included development, testing, and debugging in
    Objective-C, Gemstone/S, and Erlang/OTP. I also have my own
    application in development which is photography- and
    internet-centric. I have participated in local iPhone developer
    meetings including XCoders.
    
          
    
    
    
        Software Development Consultant
    211 LA County (Seattle, WA) (Los Angeles, CA)
    April 2007-September 2008
    
    
    	Implemented revamped core operations software for 211 information
    and referral hotline for social services in a small team of
    contractors. Responsibilities ranged from the front-end to the
    back-end, and included consultation with the client on design,
    deployment, and configuration issues. Conducted both interactive and
    double-blind user tests, and implemented a regular delivery schedule
    soliciting structured feedback. The product is an in-house web
    application that relies heavily on AJAX programming and keyboard
    navigability for interaction efficiency.
    
          
    
    
    
        Owner
    LOGOS Research and Development (Seattle, WA)
    May 2002-Present
    
    
    	Design, development, and testing of "Clean Slate" Smalltalk: a new
    programming language and software architecture intended to integrate
    and improve many disparate technologies into one coherent whole.
    
          
    
    
    
        Lead Software Developer
    Activated Content, Inc. (Seattle, WA)
    March 2006-August 2006
    
    
    	Digital forensic audio watermarking software research, planning and
    development for a startup-level effort to expand into non-forensic
    markets. Provided a sound technical product and services basis for
    deals with major music and media production companies to innovate in
    the digital music marketplace. Revamped an existing product line to
    support a wider market.
    
          
    
    
    
        Firmware Developer, as Independent Contractor
    Coastal Environmental Systems (Seattle, WA)
    June 2005-October 2005
    
    
    	Embedded systems software development for weather and environmental
    autonomous sensing stations. This involved maintenance,
    documentation, upgrade of legacy code and extensions, configuration
    management, debugging, functional testing, documentation, and
    reliability testing of the product. Prepared high-level
    documentation on the overall parameters and design of the product,
    and developed a set of recommendations for moving the product
    forward.
    
          
    
    
    
        Data Warehousing Systems Engineer
    Microsoft, Inc., MSN iDSS division (via Volt Information Services) (Redmond, WA)
    February 2004-February 2005
    
    
    	Deployed, troubleshot, and operated data-warehouse ETL pipelines.
    Catalogued and replaced legacy infrastructure software. Administered
    SQL Server/OLAP installations and developed a database application
    for auditing and automation. Negotiated with multiple MSN
    organizations on interaction protocols and software deployment
    issues. Developed clustering and optimized pipeline configurations
    for robustness and performance.
    
          
    Projects:
    * MSN adCenter
    
    
    
    
        Software Design and Research Consultant
    Ibis Information Securities (Seattle, WA)
    December 2002-June 2003
    
    
    	Consulted in the development of innovative wireless technologies and
    the software required to manage them. Also consulted in the field of
    online data-mining in the systems security field. I designed and
    developed an innovative product using dynamic language technologies.
    
          
    
    
    
        Lead Developer
    ForeHorseNet, Inc. (Seattle, WA)
    February 2001-December 2003
    
    
    	Worked with the company founders to develop a coherent technical
    strategy for the product (online payment system), by evaluating
    customer requirements, marketing issues, and suitable technologies
    and budgeting requirements.
    
          
    
        
    
      

  

Education:

    US Navy Nuclear Reactor Engineer Certification in Electronics and
    Power Distribution, December 1997
    Naval Nuclear Power School
    
    AS-equivalent coursework in Computer Science and Mathematics, March
    1996. Completed two years of honors course work in engineering and
    mathematics, along with much independent study in computer science
    and mathematics, logic and philosophy.
    Texas A&M University
    
    High School Diploma with Honors, May 1995
    Humble High School, TX
    
      Overall GPA: 4.7 out of 5.0
    
    
          I am primarily self-educated over the years, accumulating quite a
    library and using it regularly. I also correspond regularly with
    post-doctorate researchers on relevant topics.
    
        

  

Security Clearances:

    * Classified, US Navy / US Department of Energy, 1996. FBI
      background checks.
    

  

Systems Software Development:

    Programming Language Design (10 years), Domain-Specific Language
    Design and Implementation (expert), Compiler Implementation
    (intermediate), Virtual Machine Implementation (4 years), Managed
    Run-time Implementation (4 years), Formal Methods to Analyze and
    Simulate Concurrent and Distributed Software Designs (intermediate).
  

  

Programming Languages:

    C++/STL/Boost (expert), Java (J2SE) (beginner), C#/.NET Framework (1
    year), Perl, Python, PHP5 (4 years), XML, XSLT, XSL-FO, XML for
    resumes (3 years), Javascript, Prototype/Scriptaculous AJAX toolkits
    (2 years).
  
    Advanced: Squeak Smalltalk (expert), Dolphin Smalltalk, Common Lisp
    (CMUCL/SBCL/OpenMCL), Scheme (Guile/Bigloo/DrScheme), Ruby (1 year).
  

  

Databases:

    Schema Design and Implementation (expert), Schema Analysis and
    Optimization (intermediate), Query and Stored-Procedure Design and
    Optimization (expert), Security/Vulnerability Analysis
    (intermediate).
  
    Implementations: MySQL (2 years), PostGreSQL (4 years), Microsoft
    SQL Server (3 years), SQL Server OLAP Cube Management (1 year).
  

  

Web Development:

    PHP5 (intermediate), Semantic HTML/CSS/Javascript
    presentation/layout/behavior (3 years), AJAX programming with
    Prototype/Scriptaculous toolkit, design/interaction patterns (2
    years).
  
    Advanced Frameworks: Seaside (Squeak) (intermediate), Uncommon Web
    (Common Lisp) (intermediate), Ruby on Rails (1 year).
  

  

Source Management:

    Revision Control: Subversion, CVS, DARCS (expert), git, SourceSafe,
    SourceDepot, Perforce.
  
    Documentation: Doxygen (3 years), Trac, MediaWiki (including
    administration), UML diagram authoring.
  

  

Systems Administration:

    Linux/FreeBSD/Unix (intermediate), Win2k/XP/2003 (intermediate).
  

  

Professional Memberships:

    Co-Founder, Core Participant
    Saturday House
    2007--Present
    

    Participant, Initial Board Member
    Six-Hour Startup
    2007--Present
    

    Organizer, Planner
    Seattle Mind Camp
    2005-
    

    Member
    Smalltalk Industry Council
    2002-
    

    Member
    Association of Lisp Users
    2002-
    

    Lead Researcher, Designer, and Coordinator
    The TUNES.org project
    October 1999-
    
    Helped re-design the site and its documentation to reflect a broader range of technical research and to separate political from technical goals.

  

References:

    Tony Galuhn
    
    	Phone: 619.846.1939
    
    	Email: tgaluhn@cox.net
    
          
    Joseph Brothers
    
    	Phone: 206.550.5145
    
    	Email: brothers@halcyon.com
    
          
    Aaron Hoffer
    Software Process Coordinator, T-Mobile
    
    	Phone: 206.226.4238
    
    	Email: aaron@hoffer.org
    
          
    Robin Battey
    Network/Systems Security Consultant
    
    	Phone: 206.909.0262
    
    	Email: zanfur@zanfur.com
    
          

  

Copyright © 2007-2009 by Brian Rice. All rights reserved. This
document may not be copied or distributed without permission.


